# Machine Learning / Data Science case studies and product questions

This section describes how to answer open-ended case study questions. Usually, the interviewer will give you a problem that they want to build a machine learning model for. For example "I want to predict when a customer will default on their loan" or "I want to build a tool that recommends LinkedIn users that are most likely to respond to recruiter InMails". You play the role of the consultant, and your task is to walk them through the best way to approach the problem.

Here is a framework for how to approach these types of problems:
- Understand the objective. This is the first step for any machine learning model. What will the model be achieving? If the interviewer was previously vague about the problem description, ask them to clarify what they would like the model to achieve. Think in terms of what data will be the input and what will be the output. Once they've clarified, you could say " I see this as a classification / regression/ recommendation system problem where the input is X and the output is Y. I want to clarify what kind of data we have". Be sure to ask what kinds of data we have on the customer / profile / input, what sorts of metrics are we tracking. If they ask for more features or do not clarify, think about customer's activity, time history of activity, engagement metrics, personal information, etc as potential features. Also ask about what the label / output should be. Think about what metrics you will use to evaluate the model in addition to the cost function, i.e., for recommendation systems, how will you evaluate how well your model is performing? Also ask about if the dataset may be imbalanced for classification problems. You could also ask about how they plan to deploy the model, which could give you insight into what exactly they want the model to do and what data you will need. The most important part about this process is to ASK questions.
- Data engineering. Briefly discuss the data you've agreed upon and how you will need to engineer the features, i.e., encode categorical variables, normalize, remove outliers, impute missing values, etc.
- Determine modeling approach. Once you've finished discussing the data and the objective, first talk about establishing a baseline. This can be a very naive approach. For example, for recommending groups to join for a user, recommend the most popular group on the site at that moment. Know what metrics you'll use to evaluate this baseline, such as clickthrough rate, group join, etc. Once you've established a naive baseline, then you can begin by talking through the more basic modeling approaches. So for classification/regression problems, say that you will first approach using linear / logistic regression. This is important for seeing how more complicated approches are doing better. Then, if the simpler approaches are not sufficient, you can move onto more complex models such as SVMs, tree-based methods, neural networks (you probably won't end up here unless you're tackling a problem meant for deep learning). Be ready to discuss tradeoffs between different models.
- Talk about the model training process. At this point you should be discuss what will be your training set and how you will split into validation and test sets. The model performance on these sets will serve as a metric for how well it is doing. Mention cross-validation, hyperparamter tuning, etc. If the interviewer asks about discrepancies in performance between training/validation/test, be ready to talk about approaches to address underfitting and overfitting. 
- Deploy and monitor model's performance. Talk about how the model should be implemented. Talk about how you will evaluate whether the model improved the status quo, think about the metrics you will use, mention A/B testing to prove that the model is a worthwhile addition. The interviewer may ask what you would do if the model's performance begins to drop, be ready to talk about investigating potential sources of error, i.e., which samples / cases are giving the model most trouble, are there other factors such as geographical location or some holiday or social media phenomenon that is impacting the model or maybe the model's training data is now too old and needs to be updated.. Mention that you will need to retrain the model.

Here are some example case study questions that I've come across:

I want to create a tool for recruiters that suggests LinkedIn users that are most likely to be receptive to their recruitment efforts. How can I approach this?

As a gaming company, we want to continue to give players a fresh experience. We want to develop a system that recommends a new character to a player based on their playing style and the characters they've used before (Super Smash Bros, for example). What type of model could we use?

Tell me how you can develop a model to predict when a customer will default on their loan.

A university wants to detect fraud in their college applications, such as forgery, made up accomplishments, made up grades, etc. How can I build a fraud detection model to achieve this? How can you convince the director of admissions to use this model?

A cell phone company finds that it is much cheaper to pay for promotions / deals/ marketing efforts to retain customers that are close to churning (switching providers) than to lose the customer entirely. Build a model to predict whether a customer will churn or not so that the company knows when to begin redirecting promotions to retain that customer.

Build a model for a smart thermostat that can determine when to turn on or off a heater in a room.

This is a great article for further reading: https://medium.com/@ushnish.de/the-machine-learning-product-interview-question-ac244c642ff0

It is very difficult to prepare for these questions other than doing practice. One way to practice is to read actual case studies by other companies. Here is a good resource for that: https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design/blob/master/content/case-studies.md

Here is a great video walking through an example case study: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kE_t3Mm8Z50